hey this is pressure Locker imagine you
want a can that can hold a fixed volume
v you could design the can to be wide
and short in other words it would have a
large radius R and a small height H you
could also contain the same volume V in
another can which has a little smaller
value for its radius but it would be a
little taller to contain the same volume
v you could also design a can which is
narrower but it would have to be taller
the question is out of all of these
possible designs which one has the
minimum surface area the question is
what is the best ratio of the height to
the radius which uses the least material
to contain a fixed volume V give this
problem a try and when you're ready to
keep watching the video for the solution
in any cylinder the volume is given by
the formula V equals PI R squared H if
we have a fixed volume V we can solve
this equation for the height so that we
get the height in terms of the radius
the surface area of a cylinder is given
by the area of three different surfaces
there is a top and bottom to the can
which are made up of circles with radius
R and then there's a side to the can
which we can roll out to be a rectangle
the rectangle has a height H and it's
other dimension is equal to the
circumference of the circle we can add
up the areas of these shapes to get the
surface area of the cylinder we can now
substitute in our expression for the
height in terms of the volume and the
radius we then simplify this equation to
get the surface area in terms of one
variable which is the radius of the can
in order to find the minimum value of
the surface area we take the derivative
with respect to R and set it equal to
zero this gives us 4 pi R minus 2 V
divided by R squared equals zero well
solve this equation for the variable V
to get 2 PI R cubed now just to check
we'll do the second derivative and make
sure that it's positive so that we know
this is a minimum we now have two
expressions for the volume we have one
expression for the volume where we have
the minimum surface area we have another
expression for the volume which holds
true for all cylinders we can set these
equal to each other
we can now simplify this to get that the
only way this is possible is if the
variable H is equal to 2 times R in
other words we need our height to be
equal to 2 times the radius
we have the minimum surface area and
this gives us the optimal ratio of the
height to the radius is equal to two so
this is the cans size which uses the
least amount of material to contain the
fixed volume V did you figure this out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and game theory you can catch from
my blog mind your decisions that you can
follow on Facebook Google+ and patreon
you can catch me on social media at
pressure Locker never liked this video
please check out my books there are
links in the video description